KISS VS THE WORLD
________________________________________________________________________________

How does KISS compare to other Linux distributions? A fairly common question by
those coming across KISS in their travels. To answer this question we must dig a
little below the surface.

Comparing distributions is tricky. Rather than doing a comparison between each
popular distribution, this document will instead focus on what makes KISS
unique.


SHELL
________________________________________________________________________________

Ah. The shell.



PACKAGE FORMAT
________________________________________________________________________________

Unlike Alpine (APKBUILD), Arch (PKGBUILD), CRUX (Pkgfile), Gentoo (ebuild),
Void (template) and many more distributions, KISS' build files work in a
different way.

Each of the aforementioned formats is a shell script, written in bash or POSIX
shell. The build tool (abuild, makepkg, etc) then effectively does an 'eval' of
the file directly into the running instance of the tool.

KISS' build files on the other hand are language agnostic. They can be written
in any programming language. Instead of evaluating a script, the package manager
simply does the equivalent of: './script arg arg'.

This disconnect between the package manager and the build tool forces build
scripts to be generic. There aren't any weird shell functions or utilities to
learn and each script can be run without the need of the package manager.

Going further, the package format in KISS is split into multiple files which
are contained in a directory (instead of a single shell script). These
additional files are easily parseable in any programming language or with basic
UNIX utilities as they simply contain fields separated by lines and spaces.

See https://k1ss.org/package-system for the format in full.



PACKAGE MANAGER
________________________________________________________________________________

KISS' package manager is written in under 1000 lines of POSIX shell. Nothing
comes close to this simplicity and this size. The package manager is a single
self-contained script and no system setup is needed prior to its use.

Dependencies are kept to the absolute minimum and POSIX utilities are used where
possible. This enables the package manager to run anywhere with a POSIX
compliant environment and the Curl/Git utilities.

The major difference between KISS' package manager and others is that we don't
automate anything which is particularly error prone or convoluted. One won't
find recursive orphan removal alongside package removal (for example).

See https://k1ss.org/package-manager for more information.


References
________________________________________________________________________________

[0]

